hi everyone thanks so much for joining
we are closing out an incredible day
here at sastra money with a session with
marketa and we're really thrilled to
have vidya peters the chief marketing
officer at market and she's going to be
in conversation with amy chang board
member so we're really thrilled to have
vidya and amy with us here for the next
50 minutes or so just a few housekeeping
um points for everyone that join they're
joining the session we're so thrilled to
have you um we will have plenty of time
for q a and amy and video would love to
hear from you so please make sure to
drop your questions throughout the
session at the bottom of your screen in
the q a section um we have 50 minutes
overall um so make sure we take
advantage of our time with them and then
just a reminder that these sessions are
being recorded they will all be live on
the saster youtube page immediately
after the event so you can definitely
tune in if you have to jump off for a
little while or if you want to share
with anyone else after the event we
would love for you to do so so without
further ado amy and nvidia would love
for you both to take it away
hello everyone we're so excited to be
here with you today i'm amy chang and i
serve on the board of marketa and i am
so excited to get this time with you all
and vidya peters our chief marketing
officer at marketa so i'm just gonna do
a little bit of bragging about her and
embarrass her for a second so that you
know who she is so she has
already done all kinds of of stuff on
the marketing side but what you probably
didn't know about her is she recently
was running revenue for marketa as well
during one of our highest growth periods
and she helped take us public now before
that even the involvement of marketa she
was cmo at mulesoft for four years and
she helped take them public as well so
she's our good luck charm
so i i cannot tell you uh how excited we
were that she was recently rated the
number one most influential female
leader in fintech as well
so i'm sure i've embarrassed her enough
and we will get started but that's just
a little bit about vidya now vidya given
you you know have been cmo for marquetta
but you were also recently leading on
the revenue side what were some of your
biggest surprises there can you kind of
share those insights with us
thanks amy it's great to be here with
you especially because you are such a
role model for so many women i will do a
little bit of bragging on amy too jim
cramer recently called amy one of the
smartest people he knows in the valley
which was just absolutely incredible and
it takes a lot to impress jim cramer so
i'm so honored to be talking to amy
today uh amy regarding your question
about leading revenue
i think the part that surprised me the
most is
how incredibly
emotionally strong and
how um enduring your energy has to be
in the revenue organization the highs
tend to be incredibly high you're so
close to the front lines when you close
that deal that you've been working on
for months through all the twists and
turns there's something very euphoric
about it and that's something many of us
imagine absolutely to be the case when
the deal closes
but there are so many things that happen
behind the scenes that lead to
incredible emotional lows think about a
feature that is delayed that your
customer has been waiting for for months
think about a deal that you lose to say
no decision or maybe they're just not
ready to make that decision after
endless workshops and meetings and
discussions sometimes it can feel
that a lot of your work is futile
because it just led to a dead end and
especially because so much of your
compensation in the revenue organization
tends to be variable so you tend to go
with those highs and lows and i've
always been impressed with
members of the revenue organization who
lead with a sense of very strong
emotional endurance and are really able
to balance the short and long and really
focus on the big picture because you
can't let yourself go go up and down as
often as the business does with you uh
it's that close to the front lines so a
lot of respect for the emotional
endurance and the eq and the
intelligence on the emotional side that
the revenue team has to have every day
to be able to do that job
i i love that insight and it must have
given you just so much more empathy for
how marketing and sales should ideally
be working together and how that
partnership should should you know kind
of look for a very healthy overall
company what were some of your your
learnings there and what have you taken
back to the marketing team to make
certain that you change in order for
these two groups to cross-functionally
work best together
this opportunity to leave revenue was
such a gift because i think it helps me
be a better marketing leader a better
marketer
and i wanted to share some of those big
surprises and learnings which frankly
were such an eye opener for me because
having been in enterprise marketing for
as many years as i have you kind of feel
like you've seen all sides of of the
story but you haven't until you've
walked in those shoes so um i have a
couple of slides here i'll just use to
walk through
my first learning was this and and i
think the statistic
that i have here is very symptomatic of
the issue that marketers face
61 percent of marketers say that
generating traffic and leads is their
top challenge
you can see that this is top of mind for
every marketer when they're running the
business is watching those leads come in
seeing how that's tracking relative to
their target and and sort of wanting
that to be green and saying okay my job
is done
unfortunately that is just the start of
the work leads today mean almost nothing
and so the question is how many of those
actually get qualified into
opportunities how many of those
opportunities actually progress and so
there's there's this whole mindset shift
that needs to happen in marketing where
it's not a baton passing of the lead
anymore it's really a game of soccer
where the ball is being passed back and
forth and you really need a very close
partnership to say hey the lead is now
an opportunity that's great how are
those conversations going
how can we help influence the pipeline
how can we help progress those
opportunities
can we invite them to a special virtual
event can we invite them
to a webinar that we're hosting where we
deep dive into our platform can we
include them as part of our customer
advisory board so that they have a
chance to meet with some of our
customers who've been with us for years
and there are a series of tactics that
we need to be bringing out from our back
pocket because it's not just about lead
generation and the job of marketing is
not done until that pipeline leads to a
closed deal and and the ink is dry but
again and i'll share a little bit more
on that but that's the first learning is
the job is no longer about leads
the second is strategy yeah amy go ahead
every single cmo cro pair in the valley
could and worldwide could benefit from
remembering that right that that one
piece of information
that's exactly right and and marketing's
metric is no longer about marketing
qualified leads it's really about closed
revenue for the business and what role
are you playing in helping revenue close
that revenue
the second insight i had is that
strategy is not an annual process many
years ago when i started my career in
enterprise b2b marketing
the whole role was we'd sit down with
revenue at the beginning of the year and
we'd say what are the target accounts we
want to go after what are the tactics
what are the segments and then we'd say
great off to the races let's go get them
and we'll circle back in a year of
course we'll watch the numbers together
and make sure that we're tracking
against it but the strategy setting
happened early and was rarely revisited
and and the idea back then was if you
revisit the strategy you're creating
whiplash in the organization and don't
do that you know really just stay laser
focused from what you said you do at the
beginning of the year and then focus on
just delivering against that the market
is a lot more dynamic now changes are
happening a lot faster and so
it's not an annual process anymore you
said it at the beginning of the year
but we meet with a revenue organization
on a bi-weekly basis we sit down and we
look at our target list of accounts and
we keep it as a living document we say
what's working in the marketing tactics
that we are seeing in the market what's
performing well what's not how are some
of the conversations progressing are
those still the right personas for us to
be going after
we actually believe these accounts no
longer are ready for our product and and
our solution at this time let's bring
these out let's bring some of these
additional accounts in but it's a live
and living conversation that needs to
ensure that your go to market is aligned
with the realities and the learnings
that the revenue team is seeing on the
ground and that i think has been a huge
learning is the conversation is
continuous it's not just a one and done
the third one is intent is the new lead
it used to be many years ago that we
would just sit and wait for those forms
to be filled out and we say hey we have
a lead uh we have a company that's
interested here
we have so many great marketing
technologies available on the market now
where you can see companies searching
for keywords that are relevant to your
product and platform where they're
already exhibiting the need for your
product they're just not typing in your
company name and not finding you and
filling out the form bombora is a great
technology that we're a huge proponent
of but again the key here is the cross
close collaboration between the revenue
organization and marketing which is to
say hey we are seeing these five
companies surge in intent
for the exact need that our platform
serves let's partner in figuring out how
we can reach out to these target
accounts
do we have someone on the executive team
who knows the ceo there do we have a
great board member who can help make an
introduction maybe we should be trying
sdr outbound leads maybe we should be
inviting them to an upcoming webinar so
that they can learn more about our
platform and really corralling around
intent because there's nothing more
powerful than knowing that there's a
need they just don't know what the
answer is yet and that's where you can
come in
the other learning is closing the deal
is not the finish line right so we
talked about how lead is just the start
of the work between marketing and
revenue and that's great you go from
lead to closing the deal
and that's still not the end of work for
marketing which is
you know that
you are not going to be successfully
growing revenue until your customers are
successful on your platform so once the
ink is dry on the contract the job of
marketing then is to get in there and
help the customer succeed in partnership
with the revenue organization so for us
a lot of that has to do with for example
our customers build cards on our
platform but they may not know how to
drive consumption and usage of those
cars so marketing can play a role in
advising customers on how they can drive
consumption and usage and adoption by
customers
it's also about raising awareness of
other products or solutions that we have
come out with it's getting them to speak
on our behalf because we know nothing is
more powerful in marketing than hearing
from a customer or a developer on your
behalf rather than you speaking about
your own benefits of the platform and so
the work needs to continue in order to
create that flywheel effect so that
those customers can not only be
successful but also bring other great
customers to our platform in turn so
those are a few of the learnings that i
had from um
from this role particularly in the last
six months of leading both revenue and
marketing
i so wish that more companies um either
you know had the luxury or had the
discipline to actually cross pollinate
in this way because i think you know
having been on the technology in the
product side for a long time we
massively benefit when we have to go out
and interact with customers and sell
actually because it does give you that
other that other point of view so i love
that you're doing that and just a
reminder for everybody who's listening
and please feel free to put in any
questions that you have because as
videos going through all of these
insights if you have follow-up pieces
that you want to hear about or any kind
of pragmatic advice of oh okay so you
said this but how did it translate for
my teams like how am i going to
translate this insight feel free to put
them in anytime
and then video what was the biggest
misconception then about revenue right
as yet from a marketing leader's point
of view as you were traversing both of
these worlds
i would say the understanding of revenue
was a little bit simplistic from my
point of view i've always thought
members of the revenue organization are
excellent at marketing and selling right
and that's
par course which is you would expect
them to very naturally have those skills
but my thinking has evolved
in that i now believe revenue
team
members are almost all around athletes
and you have to be in order to do that
job well because not only do you have to
market and sell but you have to have a
deep understanding of the platform and
product
not just some high level bullets on here
the features and benefits but truly
understanding the customer use case and
thinking creatively about how your
platform could help address those needs
so you have to understand the breadth of
use cases and uh functionality that the
platform can serve across industries so
you have to be great at marketing and
sales naturally you have to be great at
product and platform you have to be
great at finance think about when you
are in the pricing negotiations
we i often see revenue team members
actually modeling out the total cost of
ownership over a year three years and
five years so that they have a deeper
understanding of the financial
implications of investing in the
platform they have to be very good at
not just closing the deal but actually
helping them get started on the platform
advising them on how they can set that
program up for success once they're on
our platform
i've also seen them advise them on
critical hires hey if you want to make
this program successful here are the
types of skills that you need on your
team in fact i know people in my network
who could who you could hire in order to
make this program
successful but they also become trusted
advisors over time because the revenue
team members have seen the breadth of
use cases
and
have exposure to a variety of industries
a variety of geographies and so they're
able to be advisors to customers
especially our customers they don't
always tend to be payments experts this
may be the first payments product that
they're building and so the revenue team
members become their trusted advisors to
say hey this is where the big risks are
for programs this is how you navigate
the relationships with banks and
networks this is how i think you should
design the program to be successful in
canada or in australia or in europe here
are all the payment rules and how they
vary and so i was just blown away by all
the different hats that revenue team
members had to be very adapted wearing
in order to be successful at the core
job which was to sell the platform it's
an incredibly layered and complex job
and coming back into marketing i
realized
that in order to
effectively help and support a revenue
organization you need to be thinking
more end-to-end so for example if
they're trying to fill skills gaps on
the customer teams
should we be thinking about training and
certification if they are thinking about
finding the right tech talent should we
be leaning into our developer community
and making that a resource for them if
they are thinking about total cost of
ownership when we work on pricing
strategy can we partner with them to
make that as simple as possible so that
if it's easy for them to understand
it'll be easy for the customers to grok
and so there's a new layer of empathy
that we have a deeper understanding of
their role in order to make them
successful that extends far beyond
having sales enablement materials or
great messaging or content for them to
leverage
okay i'm going to switch text for a
second and um video whenever
it's possible to get rid of the slide so
they can see you full screen i i think
we should great idea i want to see you
on screen so marketing went public right
about a month ago and it was an exciting
and
crazy ride but how did it change the
marketing goals
and now that we are a public company
what does that change and how are you
thinking about this next 12 to 18 month
period can you talk a bit about that
this is a very timely question as we
just had our quarterly marketing offside
for the last two days of this week and
one of the messages i shared with the
team is
let's picture ourselves like this is the
first day in our jobs like we've all
been fired
and we no longer work at marquetta and
we've been hired back as the first
employees of the marketing team
how would we do things differently and i
think it's so important to do that
because when you think about your job
every day you think about an increments
what's the next 10 what's the next 20
you can do
very few times in the lifetime of a
company do you get a milestone event
like going public it changes the nature
of your existence as a platform and so
it requires a very new mindset which is
how should you be going to market as a
public company what's the new level of
awareness that you want to generate the
reason is you get an incredible tailwind
when you go public
if you look at just a traffic alone to
our website
it goes up by
three digits
there's just an exponential growth in
traffic you have such growing awareness
much broader than your industry among
investors among talent across the
country that now is aware of your
company
you are now on the map of anyone that is
thinking about a solution in the payment
space and so your job as a marketer is
to not lose that momentum
how are you going to stay top of mind
and how do you bring that new level of
rigor to all of the marketing that you
do and so
there are several questions we asked
ourselves which is we are now not just
in a free form of hey this is a a year
long right 2021 is just a calendar year
no now we have to think in terms of
quarters and earnings calls and how do
you you know navigate quiet periods and
ensuring that your messages are
integrated across channels you're not
just now the marketing department you
work very closely with the finance and
investor relations departments to have
one concerned message one concerted base
for the company
you also have to think about raising
your brand awareness because it's not
just about the platform you're selling
it's about the company brand you're
selling to all of the prospects that
that could join you to help be part of
the growth journey as you know amy we
have almost 200 racks that are open
across product engineering and various
teams and so employer brand marketing
becomes a huge part of the marketing
that we do and then of course it's also
about the demand gen because
this becomes a great accelerant now we
are actually much more trustworthy much
more credible to some of the largest
accounts the largest financial
institutions so how can you use this as
a time to crack open those doors and
those conversations to further
accelerate your demand generation
efforts so we had a great off-site and
these are exactly some of the questions
we talked about which is
now that we are a new marketing team of
a new reform public company how can we
turbo charge our marketing to meet these
new challenges
i love it okay so we do have a few
questions coming in from the live stream
audience and one of um
the questions is what advice would you
give to a leader who is taking on a new
team and who's taking on a team for
which they don't necessarily have
extreme functional expertise like how do
you how do you make sure that you're
effectively leading that team and still
taking care of your current team because
it's an additional team
you know a lot of books that advise you
about starting new roles taking new
roles um talk about the first 90 days
listening and learning and i wish i
could say you have 90 days the truth is
you don't in a high growth company
that's doubling year on year 90 days is
too long to come back with your plan i
don't even know who wrote that 90 day
plan book but they must have had
the luxury of a lot of time
i would say the first most important
thing that you can do is ensure that
you have no open critical hires
you will never be successful unless you
have your critical hires on both teams
that you're leading filled in because
you need to be leaning on them now more
than ever so before you go on a
listening tour before you set the
strategy for anything make sure that you
have your foundational leadership team
in place so if you have key vice
president or director roles open you
need to fill them asap
the second i would say is set
expectations
very early on how you will be dividing
your time so i let the marketing team
know that i would only be spending 40
percent of my time with them and 60 of
my time with the revenue organization
and and what did that mean
and that means a new level of trust and
autonomy for the team that you used to
lead so now that your critical roles
hired now you can actually lean in on
them and give them the autonomy to make
certain decisions
without your day in and day out
oversight
and that's an important distinction
because without that leverage you'll
never be able to dedicate the 60 of your
time or more we realistically it was
actually 70 that i ended up spending
with revenue you wouldn't be able to do
that until you can lean on your team
third i would say is
give yourself a month not 90 days give
yourself a month to listen learn meet
absolutely everyone on the new team as
you possibly can
and be just a sponge for information and
i think this is particularly important
when you haven't let that function
before like i did i've never let the
revenue organization i have no
functional expertise there and so the
key there is to learn listen ask
questions
and actually start to develop some
patterns because that's the wonderful
thing of not being immersed in the
business is you can more easily see the
forest for the trees so as you're
hearing the narrative from each person
you can start to form a point of view
and hear where all the strengths are in
the business and the organization here
are the gaps and the opportunities
and start to develop early hypotheses on
what you can address in your short time
in the world
the tricky part is you'll never know how
long you have to leave the role for amy
you and i talked about this but you know
the role was open we were looking for
great talent and we weren't sure if that
was going to take us 90 days to fill or
six months to fill or it could have been
even longer c-level searches can be
particularly you know lengthy in time
especially
yes sometimes it can take up to a year
and so
i started to define what i could
what i was going to tackle in the first
90 days
in terms of change and impact and then
the following 90 days so a total of 180
days and then you develop a different
point of view and say if i'm in the role
longer than six months then you're the
next set of rocks that i'm going to
tackle
and share that with your ceo or your
manager and and get input early on
because such success is only defined
when you have a very clear vision
on what you are and are not going to
deliver and that clarity of
communication is so important up front
and so there were some difficult
conversations with jason amy and you and
i talked about this where jason want to
see everything done as uh he has a very
strong urgency for results
and and we had to draw that line in the
sand to say what was realistic to be
done in the first three months versus
six months and what could happen further
so
that would be my advice is first ensure
your critical roles
are filled in be very clear on how
you're going to be spending your time
and third listen learn and then declare
what you will address and spend your
time on you're not going to be able to
solve everything so declare what you
will solve what you will address and get
alignment on that early so that then you
have a clear map for how you're going to
spend time in that new role
i think there's so many insights from
what you just laid out as somebody who
is leading a global team from europe
when it is headquartered here in the
valley because that's the thing that was
so striking to me when we first met was
the level of discipline and transparency
and communication that you had to bring
and
the amount that you had to trust and
kind of find very strong leadership to
delegate to for the things where
you know you just can't do it all as one
person but you are
a really phenomenal exemplar for that
because you're actually leading this
team both teams for a period of time
from europe right which is time zone
wise challenging
so um it was so striking and i i've seen
a lot of this put into practice with
your teams were there any other pieces
that you would advise people given we're
all working globally we're all working
you know still somewhat in covet
conditions around the communication or
around kind of making certain you hire
certain types of leaders
what else would you share with with
these folks
i think um being nine hours ahead of the
bay area time zone presents its own
challenges it creates a small degree of
overlap in terms of working hours and
meetings
and it was
an incredible
school or crash course in prioritization
i will say this which is hiring is your
most important job
and if you do hiring well
then it makes
it infinitely easier to do the rest of
your work and most people should change
that
and i think that's the biggest mistake
that people make if you're not getting
the leverage that you need start back on
hiring and i i'm not sure if i've
changed my hiring philosophy given
the geographic changes because some of
the talent and some of the attributes i
still look for are
self-driven high trajectory high
accountability works autonomously these
are important no matter where i would be
based but they became a very critical
testing factor especially when i moved
to amsterdam last year to be closer to
family
and one of the things i realized is it
taught me really well to just say no to
a lot of things and
your success in your role is not
dependent on what you say yes to it's
what you say no to
and you have to say no to a lot of
things because a lot of crap gets thrown
across your desk all the time and not
out of ill world because
there's so much happening in a high
growth company and you have to be able
to sift the rocks from the pebbles and
the gravel and really ensure that you're
focused on the most important issues at
all times so my advice would be this
which is
lead with trust there's a reason you
hire a high performing team be very
clear on goals and outcomes with that
team
that will allow you to then get out of
their way on the day-to-day but be
available to them when you need when
they need obstacles removed or when they
need clarification or help
and that allows for them to then step up
into a much higher level role than you
would be if you're working side by side
with them which i've always found to be
a waste right why hire great people and
then do their job with them and so
autonomy with very clear goals and
accountability is is always a wonderful
recipe to then free you up to be able to
do more second to say no as much as
possible but that only starts when you
have a clear vision of what you're
trying to achieve so it comes back to
what we talked about earlier set the
vision for what success looks like
because then you'll know what you need
to say no to if it's not moving the
needle on these five or six issues then
it's not going to be your priority
and third is check in make sure that
those goals that you set are having the
impact that you expected right when
you're starting a new role i may have
hypotheses i may be wrong by 90 degrees
and so let's course correct maybe i had
a hypothesis that this initiative was
going to move the needle for the
business in a certain way and it's just
not panning out because there was
you know a product market fit as an
issue and so then you can course correct
but the only way you'll do that is if
you hold yourself accountable to metrics
and engaging whether you're making the
impact at the level that you thought you
were and then come back and say you know
what i thought these would be my six
priorities but i actually want to change
course because of the learnings i have
at market
love it okay love it love it and we have
a lot of questions coming in here so i'm
going to start rapid firing some of them
at you
when does brand marketing start to work
how do you know it's starting to work
and how do you know how much of your
budget to put there
i love questions about brand because
you know prior to mulesoft i was an
intuit where we had a massive budget for
brand and we ran brand surveys to
measure the awareness of the brand how
much we were moving the needle every
year we had a big budget on ad spend
when you come to a smaller higher growth
company such as mule software marketa
you don't have the dollars you have to
make every dollar go really far
and so you're not going to run a brand
survey for a hundred thousand dollars to
see how your brand is doing you don't
have millions of dollars to run a brand
campaign
and i would also say in enterprise b2b
marketing nor should you
you are not targeting everybody in
enterprise
my mom should never know about marketa
and i really shouldn't be spending a
single dollar
trying to reach her or any of the
consumers so know your audience and ask
who the brand should resonate with who
should know about your brand and then
find the scrappiest the most creative
way to get there and so what we use for
brand we have a very clear vision of the
customers we go after which are large
disruptive high-growth enterprises
and we absolutely focus on growing brand
awareness with them through account
based marketing through social channels
through linkedin through twitter
and through very targeted campaigns
through demandbase
and then it's important that we measure
we measure it through the some of the
social listening tools that we have we
look at the number of mentions that our
company gets we measure the the
sentiment of those mentions whether
they're positive and neutral versus
whether they're negative and we measure
those over time you can also measure
direct and organic traffic to your site
not all traffic but direct and organic
tends to be
a better measure of how your brand is
performing and whether that's growing
year-on-year and for a high growth
company a minimum growth that you should
be seeing is 100 year-on-year growth in
direct and organic and if it's not
growing at that rate either you don't
have the right content on your site to
draw the right traffic or you're not
doing enough in social channels or in
online channels with your target
audience to draw that relevant traffic
in so those would be some of my
suggestions
in terms of brand be very cautious of
spending a ton of money in ad campaigns
that are just brand focused on radio or
tv especially if you're focused on
enterprise
b2b
okay and we have a bunch of um developer
related questions as well so what's the
role of customer marketing and post
sales marketing in developer sales right
and if you want to give 60 seconds of
context in terms of how marketing
interacts with developers that might
help them too
every company is different but at
mulesoft and marketa i never sell to
developers developers don't like to be
sold to and the moment developers hear
marketing or sales they run in the other
direction so i've always focused on
winning the hearts of developers not the
mines the mines we focus on the c-level
suite or the buyers could be the cfo the
head of payments could be the ceo
for developers i focused on how to make
them successful
helping them learn new technologies
helping them connect with other
developers helping them solve their
problems through great documentation
access to great tools so that they can
be more skilled more efficient with what
they're doing every day
they do not care about your sales motion
they do not care about your marketing
motion they do care how great your
technology is and that's what we've
always focused on so i would say if you
have a developer marketing program
scratch that if you have a developer
sales program scratch it because the
moment you do that you'll actually repel
them the question i would ask is do you
have a developer relations program do
you have a community program do you have
a developer experience program those i
think will really move the needle for
the business so then if you can create a
bottoms up motion where you are creating
love and affinity for your brand with
developers by focusing on the tools to
help make them successful you then
earned the right to have a sales
conversation with someone else at that
company because i guarantee you
that when you reach out to that person
to have a sales conversation they will
turn to the developer and say hey have
you heard of marquetta have you heard of
this technology what are your thoughts
developers are the secret shoppers at
every company and so you will be remiss
to not cater to their experience to
their success
i love it and then how do you pay sales
reps right for api type deals or
developer-focused kind of enablement
deals that scale over time but start
tiny
a large portion portion of their
compensation is variable and tied to
outcomes so the outcome that we care
about is the success of our customers it
goes back to the point i mentioned
earlier which is the work is not done
when the ink is dry on the deal
that's often the start of the work which
is building the program scaling the
program with them making it successful
so our sales rep compensation is tied to
the ultimate gross profit on the deal
and ensuring that not only is the
program scaled but priced at a
priced at value right because you can
also scale a program by
by
really cutting down the price and giving
it away for as cheap as possible but
this ensures that if you're tying it to
the gross profit of the customer over
time that you're tying it to the right
incentives that balance the customer
success which is shown by the volume on
the program but also a healthy enough
margin so that it's sustainable for us
to continue to serve those customers
okay
and then there's an adjunct question of
are annual contracts a friction point
for developer centric sales and
marketing is pay as you go best
i know this is uh
i love this question
the important one it depends if you have
open source routes so if you have open
source routes then pay as you go is a
great way to start because you're you
know really affecting a bottoms up
motion where you want developers to get
on your platform to love it to be able
to use those tools to be able to deploy
the programs and then once they hit a
paywall of you know a certain amount of
consumption that's when the payment
kicks in and i've seen the model and you
know we have lots of open source models
that have been successful on this which
is then once they hit critical paid
volume then the enterprise contract
kicks in and then you try to bring them
to an annual contract
at marquetta it's a little bit different
because
because of a lot of the regulatory
requirements you can't just have anyone
build on the platform and deploy on a
pay-as-you-go model there's there's a
lot of kyc kyb requirements which is
know your customer because of the
orchestration of cardholder information
between banks and networks that we have
to orchestrate so for us
we believe we tie our contracts uh to
the volume that customer runs on our
platform and so
we succeed when our customer succeeds so
we don't have say an annual fee and it's
an all-you-can-eat it's more around as
you build and you see success success on
our platform we we bill based on that
but of course these pricing models vary
a lot based on business but that's the
way we have found success here at
marquetta
and then when do you bring sales into a
developer-centric environment when is it
useful when will it not repel for
example but attract the other the buyer
that you're actually trying to pull in
at marketa and mulesoft we never sold to
developers so we ensured that they loved
the technology and the platform that
they enjoyed it that they brought other
developer friends to it that they had
great word of mouth that they created
community where they could all be
successful on if the sales conversations
were had with the cio or here with the
head of payments or the ceo
there are other
models i'm currently on the board of
influx data and they have a wonderful
model where once developers are
successful on the platform they watch
the data and as they watch volume of
consumption among developers they
actually reach out to them and say hey
we're seeing a lot of you from this
company use this would you like to
formalize and enter a much larger
contract that way we can actually
evangelize the usage of this on a much
broader scale and give you cost
economics to make this
make this more reasonable for you across
the company and so i've seen both of
those models work it really depends on
your product and platform and your go to
market strategy and whether the
developer is the buyer or the consumer
of your product
okay
perfect um so we've got a question
around even more best practices to make
marketing and sales work better together
i think a lot of people are interested
in hearing kind of even a deeper level
of insight
than has already been discussed on
you know what can make them work the two
teams work even better together
a couple of new areas that we have
kicked off is competitive strategy which
is a wonderful way of very closely
and partnering
marketing and revenue even more tightly
together so for example typically you
may see competitive intelligence sit in
marketing and it's very much a one-way
street where you know marketing does the
analysis and and sort of shares it out
with the revenue organization on a
monthly basis you know here are the
features and functionality here's a
battle card here's the news here's the
messaging but what we're actually
finding is that in such a dynamic market
we actually want revenue to feedback
intelligence which is what are they
seeing on the front lines of the deals
how do they win in a particular deal or
scenario can we actually productize that
intelligence
into something that other members of the
revenue organization can use that can
make our marketing better because it's i
mean you're right there in a sales deal
and you used a certain approach that
helped you know blow all the competition
out of the water we should bring that
into marketing that actually is
something we should be leading with so
competitive strategy is a great area of
close partnership again between pricing
and between revenue and the marketing
organization developer community so we
are in the process of launching our
first developer community and it's a
great way to have the sales organization
recommend the developers of customers of
prospects that they want to see in the
community and we protect the community
so we don't have sales members selling
in there but we want to ensure that
we're keeping it as open of a funnel as
possible and having sales teams
recommend the developers that should be
part of that community or could benefit
to be a part of it and then ensuring
that if those developers go on to become
ambassadors and huge advocates of our
platform
that perhaps they could even be customer
advocates for our sales organization
because as you know developers really
don't like listening to marketing or
sales they love listening to other
developers so if you have won the hearts
of developers in your community can you
get them to speak on your behalf at an
event at a webinar to confidentially to
a customer account and speak about their
experience on the platform it is so much
more powerful than any case study i can
write or any you know marketing page
that i can put up on my website
okay let's turn to account based
marketing for
just a second what have you learned
about abm from both sides of the org
both for marketing and sales
abm used to be this really cool thing
that people just dropped in
conversations are you doing abm yeah i'm
doing abm abm's great
and what i'm finding is that it's going
from a nice to have like this really
cool approach to now just table stakes
and and there are three layers that i
think about in terms of marketing
there's one which is just protecting
your turf
that is sem ensuring that you're owning
all the keywords in your domain
something is basic no one else should be
bidding on the marquetta keyword except
me right if i let that go my competitors
would be all over it so first own your
domain on search engine marketing second
master your seo which is ensure that you
are the
absolute thought leader and expert on
everything in your domain so that you're
getting all the most relevant traffic
but those are almost
plug and play now they're just table
stakes part of the marketing allowing
you to then say 20 of my marketing goes
there 80 should be focused on abm which
is don't be just fishing in the ocean oh
i got a lead it's some lead oh wait it's
shoe i didn't even want that lead but
really the shooting in a barrel which is
identifying with sales what does a great
target account look like what is that
universe what's the persona we want to
go after and let's use all the greatest
marketing technologies that are out
there engage your demand base bombora
and terminus and go after those accounts
with a laser focus and hold yourself
accountable to it and and know that
when especially when you're talking
about account based marketing one lead
is not enough
if you're going after say an account
like amazon you need multiple doors to
be opened within that account at
multiple levels in order to start a
movement in order to start a
conversation there that actually would
lead to a successful opportunity and so
abm is where
i would spend you know the majority of
my marketing demand generation resources
in order to be most effective
okay
um many more
one last advice amy i would give on that
is technology is so quickly evolving in
the marketing tech space that what
worked for abn three years ago doesn't
work anymore so ensure that you're
taking at least one new venture call
every couple of months to keep yourself
abreast of what's new and what's cutting
edge because it's incredible what you
can do with more tech today i'd love
that
okay
and then many marketers are resistant to
quote lead commitments as a dated metric
but are they really wrong don't they
hold marketers fee to the fire
yes and
lead commitment you have to do that's
just table stakes it's a little bit like
showing up to work
but but the quality of the leads and
whether those leads turn into
opportunities whether those
opportunities actually close is where
the rubber hits the road and it comes
back to the original point is you know a
lead as a leader as a lead it just
doesn't matter was it the right title
was it at the right altitude was the
topic relevant uh were you able to
connect them to an sdr to an ae for a
fruitful conversation were you able to
then bring them through a set of
marketing initiatives content events
to progress that opportunity until it
closed so yes and
the demands of marketing are only going
to increase as we get into more complex
sales processes as we get into longer
cycle times for deals as the deals get
bigger and which is a great opportunity
for marketing which is our job will
continue to stay interesting
i love that can we go back to the team
for a second there are a few questions
on how do you build trust with a team
again that you don't have as much
functional expertise with and you have
to do it almost instantaneously were
there pragmatic things that you did just
coming into the role that really helped
kind of foster that trust really
immediately
it's asking about where you can be
in service to the team and this is
really important many leaders come in
and think the idea of leadership is to
go in and to say i'm savior i'm going to
do this job better than anyone else
that's not the job the job is to be in
service to the team and to help make
their jobs easier so that they can do
what they do best which is go close a
lot of deals and so not only listen and
learn because that's a taking job but in
every one of those conversations ask
what can i do to make your job easier
and you'll be surprised at the ways in
which you can help because the list will
be hey i actually have a really hard
time hiring for this role and and then
you can say you know what i'm gonna like
hang my network i'm gonna see if i can
help you hire for this role and fill
this role really quickly it could be hey
i'm having something stuck with legal
and finance in this way i'm not sure
what's going on and because maybe
there's not been a leader in that role
for a little while that's what they
needed they needed an executive who
could go have those conversations and be
able to remove boulders out of their way
it could be a question to say hey i have
the ceo of this account and the account
is just not progressing and you can
actually say you know what i'm going to
ask our board member to join this call
i'm going to ask jason our ceo to join
we'll be there we'll bring all of the
forces so that you have the support of
this deal to unlock it and so always ask
what you can do to help and it'll become
very clear to you how you can add value
without having the functional expertise
and i think just having your mindset
change from you're the savior with the
cape bond to really being you're there
to serve them so that they can be
successful will open up so many ways for
you to be a productive leader of a
function that you have no functional
expertise in
and video i'd love all of the leaders on
this call too to know what you're doing
to support your leaders like your most
high potential folks on your teams right
now what you regularly do to to care and
feed and win hearts and minds for all of
them
i think the first important thing that
you have to do and this is table stakes
and a lot of people forget this part and
then they go straight into career
development but the first important part
is ensure that you have defined the role
for them in a way that is normally meaty
and challenging but in a way for them
where success is clearly defined right
that is the most gratifying part of
someone's job is when you have a clear
line of sight to what the goals are and
know that when you achieve them that you
have done well in that role so clearly
defining it there's nothing more
frustrating than feeling like you are a
hamster in a wheel working incredibly
hard and going nowhere
and so invest the time to clearly define
someone's goals and measures of success
so that
they feel that when they achieve that
that they have excelled in that role
that's 80 of what you need to do first
as a manager then i think comes the next
level which is to ask them about what
more would they get energy from what
more are the areas that they could learn
and grow from we have something on the
marketing team called a ten percent
effort which is 10 of your time can be
dedicated to a passion project maybe you
are in product marketing and you want to
learn about demand gen and you take on a
project to help you develop those skills
so that you can be a more well-rounded
marketer maybe you want to spend 10
percent of your time working in a
completely different function maybe it's
in the revenue organization or maybe the
product organization how do you create
time and space for someone to be able to
learn and stretch and grow in ways that
they may not traditionally get from
their current role
we have someone on our team who loves to
spend time on culture and some of the
coalitions that we have
here at the company to make marquette a
great place to work so it's really about
their passion project and really
nurturing those and last but not least
ensuring that
they get visibility you'll be amazed i i
think a lot of managers feel like they
have to represent the work of their team
and i think it's such a missed
opportunity have them
be in front of the company let them
shine let them show their work whether
it's to the board to the all hands at a
quarterly business review because then
not only are they doing this great work
but they have a chance to talk about it
to shine with that work and i think
those three have been some of the
cornerstones of
what i have found to be most helpful
leading a team
i love that can i add one to that too
that um over the years
matching them with external folks who
can mentor them too from your network
right because you have a network that
they don't have access to normally
opening that up and making certain that
they have external people so that they
can get those other perspectives i i
find has been something which people
really value and over the years
really come back to as as something that
we can be doing for them
so that's such a wonderful idea and
especially your network amy your
network's got the who's who of silicon
valley anyone would be lucky to be
plugged in there ah
yours is pretty phenomenal well i'm
gonna ask one last question from the
audience and then i think we're out of
time so thank you everybody for for
tuning in
so um there is someone who is asking
she's very curious about how you learn
the leadership skills you talked about
it's by
making a lot of mistakes
it's by watching leaders i admire and
emulating and copying behavior and
saying that's something i've loved about
that leader i'm going to try and do that
more
it's about
trying some things and missing it
completely and then remembering how how
awful that felt for you for the person
that you were trying to do right by it's
about acknowledging that with that
person and and rebuilding it from there
and i think that there are many books on
leadership but the only way to do it is
to go out there and take in as many
swings of the bat as you can because
only then do you get a feel of how how
to get it right and so i would my advice
to you would be is don't shy away from
leadership challenges or opportunities
go their swing because you're going to
miss every one of those swings
especially when you don't take it and
surround yourself with great leaders
that you admire it's the number one
thing that matters to me when i choose a
job is do i really admire this
leadership team could i learn from them
could i feel like i want to be them i
want to emulate them because when you
surround yourself with these people you
grow you grow and learn so much
and and then you know get right back up
when you fail because everyone fails
i love that well thank you everyone for
coming today we're so excited that we
got to share this time with you nvidia
thank you for sharing all the insights
and thank you for
being really open and transparent and
having pragmatic advice peppered in with
you know kind of all of the the
more theoretical pieces you've learned
too over the last
10 20 you know years thank you this is a
blast thank you amy appreciate it